Hey guys!
So this is the book cover tag.
I was tagged by WordsofaReader who also made
a really great video, so you should go watch
hers.
The first question is - what are my six favorite
book covers?
So the first one is this edition of Wuthering
Heights.
I really like the composition of the cover,
how the image takes up most of the space,
and this picture definitely really captures
the mood of the story.
The next one is this edition of One Day.
I really like the kind of bold graphic design
and these bright colors just really make it
pop, and I really love silhouettes.
I really love this edition of Mrs Dalloway
by Virginia Woolf.
I love the typeface here and the really subtle
colors, as well as the vintage photograph.
It's just all really well designed and brought
together.
Next is this collection of Emily Bronte's
poems.
I love the intricate little details, the graphic
design on the spine is really great, and the
design on the first couple pages, I also just
really like.
The fifth book is Wildwood, which I have mentioned
several times.
It's illustrated by Carson Ellis, and she
has a blog post where she goes through the
whole process of designing this, which is
really fascinating, so I'll put a link below.
I love how the title and their names are kind
of really shiny, and also pop out from the
physical paper and add a kind of texture.
And then you get the hint of the bright red
of the actual book itself.
So without the dust jacket you just have bright
red and a lone golden raven, which hints to
what happens in the book.
And then this simple spine is just really
great.
And of course, I have to include this edition
of Jane Austen's Seven Novels.
It's got the kind of embossing and gold inlay,
gold page edges, just all of these flowery
details, the kind of wallpaper-y design on
the inside.
As well as this title page.
I just really love stuff like this.
So the second question is about keeping series
covers together.
So often, they will re-design covers before
the series is even complete, so I personally
like to have my covers match as well as I
can.
When I bought my own set of the Harry Potter
books, I went to Powell's in Portland and
just went through all of their copies and
found the matching set that I could.
So I went with these paperback editions, with
the checkered spine, and the first three all
match and have shiny letters and then the
checkered pattern has this kind of implied
fabric texture.
But the other ones I got don't have the fabric
texture and the lettering isn't shiny, but
it still matches close enough, so I'm pretty
happy with it.
The next question is how important is the
book cover?
To me it's not all that important, but it
is still pretty important.
For example, if you go to Goodreads, and look
at all the giveaways, you can see a lot of
really crappy covers and a lot of really well
designed covers.
The cover can definitely push me away or intrigue
me further.
But I never rely on just the cover alone when
I buy a book.
The next question is what kind of book covers
draw you in?
I really like kind of graphic floral designs,
like here on the corner of The Name of the
Star, or on Emily Bronte's poems.
I like silhouettes, like Two Histories of
England by Jane Austen and Charles Dickens.
Or again, on One Day.
Covers that are very graphic with bright colors
and sharp lines that really pop out.
Catcher in the Rye, this cover is definitely
very graphic.
I love the line quality paired with the kind
of more raw red paint.
The colors are really simple, and I really
love the kind of vintage look of this, especially
with the hand painted typography.
The next question - what are your book cover
pet peeves?
I really stay away from books that have shirtless
guys on the front, or girls in prom dresses,
or people posed in front of some kind of wasteland.
I really agree with Leslie in how she stays
away from photographs of people on covers,
they just feel really posed.
One exception I have is this cover of Mrs
Dalloway, it's not a very posed picture and
it just really is beautiful.
And, like I said the whole cover just really
flows together.
The next question is do you like short descriptions
or long ones?
I like enough of a basic description to tell
me what it's about, what genre it is, but
without revealing huge amounts of the plot.
If I'm in a bookstore and there is no description
on the back or the front flap that really
does bother me, because how am I supposed
to know if I'm interested in it or not?
But more often I am hearing about books through
the internet, and on Goodreads.
Rather than just browsing through a store.
Because I can't really afford to just browse
lately, it's too much of a temptation.
I have gotten a couple requests to show the
illustrations in some of these books, so I
am going to do that.
So make sure to watch out for the video.
As always, thanks for watching, and I'll see
you later!